operator-api/README.md, before:

# Kernel Computer Operator API.

- New operator API to replace current Go server API, with added functionalities (supports previous endpoints & schema)
- To use on PORT=10001

---

# Todo

```
- test ffmpeg capture with audio
- screen display resolution <> ffmpeg in case of resize
- add more tools that are useful for agents
- document api
```

---

# Build & Run


- Using bun builder

```bash
bun build # binaries : dist/kernel-operator-api , dist/kernel-operator-test
```

- Run tests from inside the kernel-images container :
  - Run tests manually

  ```bash
  # build the container ...
  # start container with DEBUG_BASH=true for interactive mode (optional)

  WITH_KERNEL_OPERATOR_API=true DEBUG_BASH=true IMAGE=kernel-docker ENABLE_WEBRTC=true  ./run-docker.sh

  # when container launches, run tests from inside it

  /usr/local/bin/kernel-operator-test # lists available tests
  /usr/local/bin/kernel-operator-test --all # run all tests
  /usr/local/bin/kernel-operator-test fs screenshot # specify test suites
  ```

  - Autorun tests

  ```bash
  # build the container ...
  # you can set DEBUG_OPERATOR_TEST=true to auto run all tests

  WITH_KERNEL_OPERATOR_API=true DEBUG_OPERATOR_TEST=true IMAGE=kernel-docker  ENABLE_WEBRTC=true  ./run-docker.sh

  # after tests complete (some tests have ~30s timeout)
  # you should be able to fetch the gradually generated tests logs file
  # using the operator api itself, from outside the container (provided /fs/read_file works)
  curl "http://localhost:444/health" # health check
  curl -o kernel_operator_tests.log "http://localhost:444/fs/read_file?path=%2Ftmp%2Fkernel-operator%2Ftests.log"
  cat kernel_operator_tests.log
  ```
---

# Checklist

`[✅ : Works , 〰️ : Yet to be tested , ❌ : Doesn't work]`

## /bus
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/bus/publish | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/bus/subscribe | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /clipboard
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/clipboard | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/clipboard/stream | 〰️ | ❌ | 〰️ | timeout after 30000ms

## /computer
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/computer/click_mouse | 〰️ | 〰️ | 〰️ | N/A
/computer/move_mouse | 〰️ | 〰️ | 〰️ | N/A

## /fs
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/fs/create_directory | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/delete_directory | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/delete_file | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/download | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/file_info | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/list_files | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/move | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/read_file | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/set_file_permissions | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/tail/stream | 〰️ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/upload | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/watch | 〰️ | ❌ | 〰️ | watch start failed
/fs/watch/{watch_id} | 〰️ | ❌ | 〰️ | watch start failed
/fs/watch/{watch_id}/events | 〰️ | ❌ | 〰️ | watch start failed
/fs/write_file | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /health
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/health | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /input/desktop
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/input/combo/activate_and_type | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/combo/activate_and_keys | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/combo/window/center | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/combo/window/snap | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/desktop/count | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/desktop/current | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/desktop/viewport | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/desktop/window_desktop | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/display/geometry | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/keyboard/key | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/keyboard/key_down | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/keyboard/key_up | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/keyboard/type | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/mouse/click | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/mouse/down | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/mouse/location | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/mouse/move | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/mouse/move_relative | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/mouse/scroll | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/mouse/up | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/system/exec | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/system/sleep | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/activate | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/active | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/close | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/focus | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/focused | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/geometry | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/kill | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/map | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/minimize | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/move_resize | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/name | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/pid | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/raise | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/unmap | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /logs
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/logs/stream | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /macros
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/macros/create | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/macros/list | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/macros/run | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/macros/{macro_id} | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /metrics
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/metrics/snapshot | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/metrics/stream | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /network/forward
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/network/forward | 〰️ | 〰️ | 〰️ | N/A
/network/forward/{forward_id} | 〰️ | 〰️ | 〰️ | N/A
/network/har/stream | 〰️ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/network/intercept/rules | 〰️ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/network/intercept/rules/{rule_set_id} | 〰️ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/network/proxy/socks5/start | 〰️ | 〰️ | 〰️ | N/A
/network/proxy/socks5/stop | 〰️ | 〰️ | 〰️ | N/A

## /os
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/os/locale | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /pipe
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/pipe/recv/stream | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/pipe/send | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /process
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/process/exec | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/process/spawn | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/process/{process_id}/kill | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/process/{process_id}/status | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/process/{process_id}/stdin | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/process/{process_id}/stdout/stream | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /recording
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/recording/delete | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/recording/download | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/recording/list | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/recording/start | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/recording/stop | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /screenshot
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/screenshot/capture | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/screenshot/{screenshot_id} | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /scripts
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/scripts/delete | 〰️ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/scripts/list | 〰️ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/scripts/run | 〰️ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/scripts/run/{run_id}/logs/stream | 〰️ | 〰️ | 〰️ | N/A
/scripts/upload | 〰️ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /stream
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/stream/start | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/stream/stop | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/stream/{stream_id}/metrics/stream | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

Commit message:

Operator API [works in unikraft 🤗 ; fix attempt for operator:chrome-ext-remote-install error (chromium --pack-extension=/tmp/extwork../unpacked/my-chrome-ext-main --pack-extension-key=/var/lib/chrome-ext-keys/gh_e7...a.pem exited 1 [ERROR:content/browser/zygote_host/zygote_host...] Running as root without --no-sandbox is not supported. see https://crbug.com/638180) ]

operator-api/README.md, after:

# Kernel Computer Operator API.

- New operator API to replace current Go server API, with added functionalities (supports previous endpoints & schema)
- To use on PORT=10001

---

# Todo

```
- test ffmpeg capture with audio
- screen display resolution <> ffmpeg in case of resize
- add more tools that are useful for agents
- document api
```

---

# Build & Run


- Using bun builder

```bash
bun build # binaries : dist/kernel-operator-api , dist/kernel-operator-test
```

- Run tests from inside the kernel-images container :
  - Run tests manually

  ```bash
  # build the container ...
  # start container with DEBUG_BASH=true for interactive mode (optional)

  WITH_KERNEL_OPERATOR_API=true DEBUG_BASH=true IMAGE=kernel-docker ENABLE_WEBRTC=true  ./run-docker.sh

  # when container launches, run tests from inside it

  /usr/local/bin/kernel-operator-test # lists available tests
  /usr/local/bin/kernel-operator-test --all # run all tests
  /usr/local/bin/kernel-operator-test fs screenshot # specify test suites
  ```

  - Autorun tests

  ```bash
  # build the container ...
  # you can set DEBUG_OPERATOR_TEST=true to auto run all tests

  WITH_KERNEL_OPERATOR_API=true DEBUG_OPERATOR_TEST=true IMAGE=kernel-docker  ENABLE_WEBRTC=true  ./run-docker.sh

  # after tests complete (some tests have ~30s timeout)
  # you should be able to fetch the gradually generated tests logs file
  # using the operator api itself, from outside the container (provided /fs/read_file works)
  # (use `localhost:10001` if you want to try from inside the container's chromium)
  curl "http://localhost:444/health" # health check
  curl -o kernel_operator_tests.log "http://localhost:444/fs/read_file?path=%2Ftmp%2Fkernel-operator%2Ftests.log"
  cat kernel_operator_tests.log
  ```
---

# Checklist

`[✅ : Works , 〰️ : Yet to be tested , ❌ : Doesn't work]`

## /browser-ext
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/browser/extension/add/unpacked | 〰️ | 〰️ | 〰️ | Supports GitHub URL or zip file upload

## /bus
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/bus/publish | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/bus/subscribe | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /clipboard
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/clipboard | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/clipboard/stream | 〰️ | ❌ | 〰️ | timeout after 30000ms

## /computer
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/computer/click_mouse | 〰️ | 〰️ | 〰️ | N/A
/computer/move_mouse | 〰️ | 〰️ | 〰️ | N/A

## /fs
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/fs/create_directory | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/delete_directory | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/delete_file | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/download | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/file_info | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/list_files | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/move | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/read_file | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/set_file_permissions | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/tail/stream | 〰️ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/upload | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/fs/watch | 〰️ | ❌ | 〰️ | watch start failed
/fs/watch/{watch_id} | 〰️ | ❌ | 〰️ | watch start failed
/fs/watch/{watch_id}/events | 〰️ | ❌ | 〰️ | watch start failed
/fs/write_file | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /health
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/health | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /input/desktop
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/input/combo/activate_and_type | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/combo/activate_and_keys | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/combo/window/center | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/combo/window/snap | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/desktop/count | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/desktop/current | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/desktop/viewport | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/desktop/window_desktop | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/display/geometry | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/keyboard/key | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/keyboard/key_down | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/keyboard/key_up | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/keyboard/type | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/mouse/click | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/mouse/down | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/mouse/location | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/mouse/move | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/mouse/move_relative | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/mouse/scroll | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/mouse/up | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/system/exec | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/system/sleep | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/activate | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/active | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/close | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/focus | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/focused | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/geometry | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/kill | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/map | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/minimize | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/move_resize | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/name | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/pid | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/raise | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/input/window/unmap | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /logs
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/logs/stream | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /macros
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/macros/create | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/macros/list | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/macros/run | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/macros/{macro_id} | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /metrics
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/metrics/snapshot | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/metrics/stream | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /network/forward
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/network/forward | 〰️ | 〰️ | 〰️ | N/A
/network/forward/{forward_id} | 〰️ | 〰️ | 〰️ | N/A
/network/har/stream | 〰️ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/network/intercept/rules | 〰️ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/network/intercept/rules/{rule_set_id} | 〰️ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/network/proxy/socks5/start | 〰️ | 〰️ | 〰️ | N/A
/network/proxy/socks5/stop | 〰️ | 〰️ | 〰️ | N/A

## /os
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/os/locale | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /pipe
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/pipe/recv/stream | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/pipe/send | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /process
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/process/exec | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/process/spawn | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/process/{process_id}/kill | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/process/{process_id}/status | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/process/{process_id}/stdin | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/process/{process_id}/stdout/stream | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /recording
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/recording/delete | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/recording/download | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/recording/list | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/recording/start | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/recording/stop | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /screenshot
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/screenshot/capture | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/screenshot/{screenshot_id} | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /scripts
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/scripts/delete | 〰️ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/scripts/list | 〰️ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/scripts/run | 〰️ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/scripts/run/{run_id}/logs/stream | 〰️ | 〰️ | 〰️ | N/A
/scripts/upload | 〰️ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A

## /stream
Endpoint/service | API Build | Kernel:Docker | Kernel:Unikraft | Notes
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- 
/stream/start | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/stream/stop | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
/stream/{stream_id}/metrics/stream | ✅ | ✅ | 〰️ | N/A
